[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: So
it really is an uninversion of control.
Now there's more to promises than that.
And this does start to get a little
bit more into how do I use the API?
This is normally where people
start learning promises.
So I'm not neglecting
teaching you that part, but
you'll notice that I built us
a foundation of concept first.
Now that you understand why
promises are so important.
Now you understand that the way that
they're designed is intentional,
it's on purpose.
There's a reason for it.
It's not just that they don't
know how to design stuff.
So let's talk about what they
do in terms of flow control.
Because in our modern JavaScript programs,
it's very rarely the case,
that we simply have a single step,
if then asynchronously.
There's one action and
then when it's finished we move on.
Most of our modern JavaScript programs,
most of you that are listening,
are probably writing vastly
more sophisticated systems.
These two things have to happen, and
whenever they finish, I move on to this.
And then this third thing fires off here,
and then it comes back together.
That's called flow control.
Managing how all of those steps go through
your program is called flow control.
We've seen flow control already,
we saw it with thunks.
We saw it with callbacks.
So what do promises offered
by a way of flow control?
How do they allow us to do, cuz a promise
fundamentally is just an if then,
it's a wait for this to finish and
then do the next thing.
Well that's not useful to us unless
there's some way to compose promises
together, I used word compose again.
Compose promises together in a way
to to manage our flow control.
So back to our friendly fun pseudocode.
I'd like to be able to do the first thing,
and then when it's finished do the second
thing, and when it's finished do the third
thing, and when it's finished complete.
And by the way if there's any
error anywhere along that chain,
I'd like to fail out to an error.
That's the most basic sense
sequential flow control.
How do promises allow us to
manage sequential flow control?
The key characteristic.
It's an API design decision.
Chaining promises.
I have one promise that
represents the first step.
Another promise represents
the second step.
Another promise represents the third step.
And in anywhere along that chain, and
I'll show you how we chain on it together.
But anywhere along that chain,
if an error happens, if
a rejection of the promise happens rather,
we fail out to the rejection chain.
Okay?
So chaining promises,
here's your key take away to understand
how chaining promises happen.
The way you take a promise A and
chain it with a promise B,
is that in the promise A, when you
set up event handler for a promise A.
In that handler you return promise B.
You return one promise,
you return the second promise from
the success handler of the first promise.
And magically they chained together.
It's actually not so magical,
it's actually when you implement promise
libraries, you find out it's
actually pretty complicated to do.
But nonetheless it's been designed to do
that, we take care of that work for you.
So that all you need to do
to make a series of chains,
is to return one promise from
the success handler of the previous one.
So do first thing is
gonna give us a promise.
We set up a then handler,
we do whatever we need to do with that.
And then we call doSecondThing.
DoSecondThing makes another promise, and
you'll notice that we do, is we return it.
And by returning it, it means that
the .then handler on line five, which
would normally have proceeded immediately
after the handler from line two.
It no longer is going
to proceed immediately.
Instead the .then handler from
line five is going to wait for
the promise returned on line three.
It's going to chain those things together.
It swaps it out underneath the covers and
handles all that complexity for you.
So we can approximate a flow control
by chaining our promises together.
Now, this could have
been done with thunks and
it could have been done with callbacks.
We've done this already.
A sequential set of steps already,
you know what that looks like.
And it often does pattern itself
in a nested series of callbacks.
So one of the big things that people get
excited about with promises when they
see example promise code,
they get excited about this idea
that it's not nested anymore.
It's organized into a vertical chain.
That is the least
important part of promises.
Not unimportant.
It's the least important part.
In fact I'll be honest with you,
when I first started writing
promises this is all I did.
I rewrote all of my asynchronous
code using promised chains,
I became completely drunk on the idea that
that's the right way to write my code.
And upon reflection a couple of years
later, I don't really use promise chains
anymore, it's the least important part,
I could take it or leave it.
Because it turns out there's better
ways of doing flow control, and
we're gonna get to that
a little bit later.
There's better ways of doing our
flow control than a promise chain.
Is a promise chain better
than a thunk nested series?
Yep.
Is it better than whatever the crap
we call the callback stuff
that we wrote before?
Absolutely.
It's better.
But this isn't the important part.
So, give me the immutability and the
safety and the trust, and I could leave.
I could take or leave the flow control,
the chaining of promises.
Now, I'd be remiss if I didn't
teach you how they work.
So we are gonna spend a little bit of
time understanding promised chaining.
But I just want you to know where
it sits within the whole scope and
scheme of what we're talking about.
You're gonna need to understand it,
cuz you're gonna write
a lot of framework code.
There's a lot of angulars and reacts,
and all that are out there that
are gonna use promise chains.
But I want you to remember
in the back of your head.
Why using those promises is so important.
It really has nothing to
do with the chaining stuff.
Okay?
Here's another example,
this one is using delay.
So we're actually delaying based upon
times, and you could use that for
an animation chain for example.
People have written animations
with delays, and of course,
works exactly the same way.
>> Kyle Simpson: Back to that whole
calculating the meaning of life thing.
Here is the meaning of life
represented as a promise chain.
GetData(10) returns a promise
that 1000 milliseconds from
now will resolve the promise.
And you'll notice that promises
are not just about an if then, but
they are about message passing as well.
So when getData(10) finishes,
it passes that data along to
the next step in the promise chain.
And we get it in num1.
And then when getData(30) finishes
a 1000 milliseconds from now,
num2 is called with the value 30.
And then when that promise resolves,
the answer is given that value.
So the promise chain does propagate
data down from step to step to step,
which is a really
important powerful thing.
Promises not only represent flow control,
but
they are also represent data
flow through our steps.